Teleporter registry upgrade (#43)
ava-labs/teleporter: contracts/src/Teleporter/upgrades/README.md

# Upgradeability

## Overview

The `TeleporterMessenger` contract is non-upgradable, once a version of the contract is deployed it cannot be changed. This is with the intention of preventing any changes to the contract that could potentially introduce bugs or vulnerabilities.

However, we do want to be able to provide new features and improvements to the `TeleporterMessenger` contract. To do this we have implemented a `TeleporterRegistry`.

> The `TeleporterRegistry` keeps track of a mapping of `TeleporterMessenger` contract versions to their addresses. This allows us to deploy new versions of the `TeleporterMessenger` contract and then update the `TeleporterRegistry` to point to different versions. The `TeleporterRegistry` can only be updated through a Warp out-of-band message that qualifies the following requirements:

Author: discussed offline, we are going to stick with "version", since "nonce" is also an overloaded term. Developers might think nonces should only be incremental, but for the registries old versions can be added. Added clarification that version mapping is independent across blockchains, and up to chain to choose their mapping.

> - `sourceChainAddress` must match `VALIDATORS_SOURCE_ADDRESS = address(0)`

Reviewer: Bumping this in case it fell through the cracks

- Version zero is an invalid version, and is used to indicate that a `TeleporterMessenger` contract has not been registered yet.
- Once a version number is registered in the registry, it cannot be changed, but a previous registered protocol address can be added to the registry with a new version. This is especially important in the case of a rollback to a previous version, the previous Teleporter contract address can be registered with a new version to the registry.

## How to use `TeleporterRegistry`

`TeleporterUpgradeable` is an abstract contract that helps integrate the `TeleporterRegistry` into a dapp. The dapp contract can inherit `TeleporterUpgradeable`, and pass in the Teleporter registry address inside the constructor, for example in [ERC20Bridge](../ERC20Bridge.sol):

```solidity
contract ERC20Bridge is
    IERC20Bridge,
    ITeleporterReceiver,
    ReentrancyGuard,
    TeleporterUpgradeable
{
    ...
    constructor(
        address teleporterRegistryAddress
    ) TeleporterUpgradeable(teleporterRegistryAddress) {
        currentChainID = WarpMessenger(WARP_PRECOMPILE_ADDRESS)

>             .getBlockchainID();

Author: this is part of the constructor for the ERC20Bridge, so will be left alone. The warp call is removed for TeleporterMessenger

# Upgradeability

## Overview

The `TeleporterMessenger` contract is non-upgradable, once a version of the contract is deployed it cannot be changed. This is with the intention of preventing any changes to the deployed contract that could potentially introduce bugs or vulnerabilities.

> However, there should still be new versions of the `TeleporterMessenger` contract that provide new features, and `TeleporterRegistry` supports the integration with these new versions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
However, there could still be new versions of `TeleporterMessenger` deployed in the future. `TeleporterRegistry` is designed to enable applications using a `TeleporterMessenger` instance to integrate newer versions without minimal to no required interaction.
```

I don't really like my wording, but don't think we should specify "new versions that provide new features".

Author: updated

> The `TeleporterRegistry` keeps track of a mapping of `TeleporterMessenger` contract versions to their addresses. This allows us to deploy new versions of the `TeleporterMessenger` contract and then update the `TeleporterRegistry` to point to different versions. The `TeleporterRegistry` can only be updated through a Warp out-of-band message that meets the following requirements:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `TeleporterRegistry` maintains a mapping of `TeleporterMessenger` contract versions to their addresses. When a new `TeleporterMessenger` version is deployed, it's address can be added to the `TeleporterRegistry`. The `TeleporterRegistry` can only be updated through a Warp out-of-band message that meets the following requirements:
```

> ## Overview

Reviewer: Can you add a paragraph explaining the `getLatestVersion` method? Specifically, we should make it clear that this returns the numerically largest version number registered in the contract. The language can be a bit confusing, since "latest" may be interpreted as the most recent Teleporter version registered, not necessarily the highest number version.

- `sourceChainAddress` must match `VALIDATORS_SOURCE_ADDRESS = address(0)`
- `sourceChainID` must match the blockchain ID that the registry is deployed on
- `destinationChainID` must match the blockchain ID that the registry is deployed on
- `destinationAddress` must match the address of the registry

## Design

- `TeleporterRegistry` is deployed on each blockchain that needs to keep track of `TeleporterMessenger` contract versions.
- Each registry's mapping of version to contract address is independent of registries on other blockchains, and chains can decide on their own registry mapping entries.
- `TeleporterRegistry` contract can be initialized through a list of initial registry entries, which are `TeleporterMessenger` contract versions and their addresses.
- The registry keeps track of a mapping of `TeleporterMessenger` contract versions to their addresses, and vice versa, a mapping of `TeleporterMessenger` contract addresses to their versions.
- Version zero is an invalid version, and is used to indicate that a `TeleporterMessenger` contract has not been registered yet.

> - Once a version number is registered in the registry, it cannot be changed, but a previous registered protocol address can be added to the registry with a new version. This is especially important in the case of a rollback to a previous version, the previous Teleporter contract address can be registered with a new version to the registry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Once a version number is registered in the registry, it cannot be changed, but a previous registered protocol address can be added to the registry with a new version. This is especially important in the case of a rollback to a previous Teleporter version, in which case the previous Teleporter contract address would need to be registered with a new version to the registry.
```

The `TeleporterMessenger` contract is non-upgradable, once a version of the contract is deployed it cannot be changed. This is with the intention of preventing any changes to the deployed contract that could potentially introduce bugs or vulnerabilities.

However, there could still be new versions of `TeleporterMessenger` contracts needed to be deployed in the future. `TeleporterRegistry` provides applications that use a `TeleporterMessenger` instance a minimal step process to integrate with new versions of `TeleporterMessenger`.

> The `TeleporterRegistry` maintains a mapping of `TeleporterMessenger` contract versions to their addresses. When a new `TeleporterMessenger` version is deployed, it's address can be added to the `TeleporterRegistry`. The `TeleporterRegistry` can only be updated through a Warp out-of-band message that meets the following requirements:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `TeleporterRegistry` maintains a mapping of `TeleporterMessenger` contract versions to their addresses. When a new `TeleporterMessenger` version is deployed, its address can be added to the `TeleporterRegistry`. The `TeleporterRegistry` can only be updated through a Warp out-of-band message that meets the following requirements:
```

}
```

> The `TeleporterUpgradeable` contract saves the Teleporter registry in a state variable used by the inheriting contract, and initializes a `_minTeleporterVersion` to the latest `TeleporterMessenger` version registered in `TeleporterRegistry`. The `onlyAllowedTeleporter` modifier ensures that `msg.sender` is a `TeleporterMessenger` contract with a version greater than or equal to `_minTeleporterVersion`. This modifier is used to restrict access to functions that should only be called by a `TeleporterMessenger` contract, i.e. `ITeleporterReceiver.receiveTeleporterMessage`. This is to support the case where a dapp wants to upgrade to a new version of the `TeleporterMessenger` contract, but still wants to be able to receive messages from the old Teleporter contract. Then once the dapp completes delivery of messages from the old Teleporter contract, it can call `TeleporterUpgradeable.updateMinTeleporterVersion` to update the `_minTeleporterVersion` to the new version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `TeleporterUpgradeable` contract saves the Teleporter registry in a state variable used by the inheriting contract, and initializes a `_minTeleporterVersion` to the highest number `TeleporterMessenger` version registered in `TeleporterRegistry`. The `onlyAllowedTeleporter` modifier ensures that `msg.sender` is a `TeleporterMessenger` contract with a version greater than or equal to `_minTeleporterVersion`. This modifier is used to restrict access to functions that should only be called by a `TeleporterMessenger` contract, i.e. `ITeleporterReceiver.receiveTeleporterMessage`. This is to support the case where a dapp wants to upgrade to a new version of the `TeleporterMessenger` contract, but still wants to be able to receive messages from the old Teleporter contract. Then once the dapp completes delivery of messages from the old Teleporter contract, it can call `TeleporterUpgradeable.updateMinTeleporterVersion` to update the `_minTeleporterVersion` to the new version.
```
